Hi! Welcome to the screencast on installing Redis. If you remember from our
architecture diagram, Redis is where Sensu stores its state. While it may
seem like an extra component at first, to
tack on, it is essential to the ability
for Sensu to scale, because with Redis, none of the Sensu
servers need to store their state with
them, and that means that they are stateless
and you can have as many as you want.
We'll talk about that in more advanced courses
but for now we're just install a basic
Redis instance. Again like before we're going to use
the official documentation, do it step by
step, and we're also going to be using
our vagrant box, that we used last time...
For this we're going to be installing just the stock version of the Redis server that comes with Ubuntu trusty.
Most of the time you'll be able to get away with the version of Redis that comes with your distribution.
Now we'll start it up...
Apparently it was already running.
Now that may be, a very simple installation of Redis, and it is,
because it's a very easy storage machine to get going, but let's go a little further, to see
if it's working.
The Sensu docs recommend a "redis-cli ping", so let's check that out...
Redis is running. You should get to know at least where the logs are in case you need to
troubleshoot, it's in the standard
location you might expect:"/var/log/redis/"
Not much going on. But, if you had
issues with connecting to it or if it couldn't start,
here's where you might go to look to see
what might be going wrong. Of course it is
good to know with every component, what port it listens on and where, and what it binds to.
You can see that stock installation, we're
binding to localhost:6379. So if you're
working firewalls or just
troubleshooting, it's good to know.
That's about it for Redis. Again it's a very
simple storage-machine that we will use,
that Sensu-server will use to store its
state. Now that it's running, our next steps,
our next pieces will be able to take advantage of it.